.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2015 Johan Wermensjö <johanwermensjoe@gmail.com>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH "GBPX" "1" "October 24, 2015" "gbpx 0\&.7" "gbpx Manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
gbpx \- is a helper script to build and maintain debian packages with git
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gbpx
.RI [ options ]
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR]
[<\fBcommand\fR>]
[\fIGIT_PATH\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBgbpx\fP is helper script to build debian packages with git.
The script uses config files to specify branch names etc.
for your projects and helps you maintain three core branches:
release (for upstream dev), upstream and debian (for package).
.PP
The normal workflow for \fBgbpx\fP:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.TP
1). (\fBOptional\fR) \fBtest-pkg\fR
to do a quick release build without committing to repository.
.TP
2). \fBcommit-release\fR
tag and create an upstream commit from the latest release
and merge to debian branch.
.TP
3). (\fBOptional\fR) \fBtest-build\fR
quick test build without committing to repository.
.TP
4). \fBupdate-changelog\fR
update and edit the debian changelog and commit the result.
.TP
6). \fBcommit-build\fR
build and tag the latest debian commit.
.TP
5). \fBupload\fR
upload the latest build to configured ppa.
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the help menu.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Show the current version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose | \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Enable verbose or quiet mode.
.TP
.B \-c ", " \-\-color
Enable colored output.
.TP
.B \-s ", " \-\-safemode
Prevent any file changes.
.TP
.B \-n ", " \-\-norestore
Prevent auto restore on command failure.
.TP
.B \-\-config \fICONFIG_FILE\fR
Path to the config file (default is ./gbp\-helper).
.PP
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
Automatic backups are created before every command is executed (except
\fBrestore\fR). On error the latest backup will be restored if not disabled.
.TP
.B test\-pkg
.br
Prepare a release and build the package with test options.
Restore repository to the previous state. Used to test release changes quickly.
.TP
.B commit\-release
.br
Commit the current release to the upstream branch and tag.
Then merge the created upstream with the debian branch.
.TP
.B update\-changelog
.br
Update the changelog for a new release and commit the changes.
.TP
.B test\-build
.br
Build the latest debian package with test options without tagging.
.TP
.B commit\-build
.br
Build the latest debian package with standard options and tag.
The tag version is based on the latest version in debian/changelog.
.TP
.B upload
.br
Upload the last build to the configured PPA.
Will not perform a build.
.TP
.B restore
.br
Restore the repository to a earlier state e.g before a failed command.
The backups are stored temporarily and are created on all actions.
.TP
.B clone
.br
Clone a source repository and setup release, upstream and debian branches.
.TP
.B config
.br
Create example config file with default values.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Johan Wermensjoe <johanwermensjoe@gmail.com>
